When it comes to managing up, are you
familiar with the phrase managing up?
That essentially means you have to manage
your manager, because they have different
expectations, they have different things
they need, they have different priorities
that aren't necessarily focused on you and
your team, that's your job.
So managing up is kind of
the art of doing that.
So when you first meet with your manager,
things you should find
out pretty early on.
What are their expectations?
What are they looking from from you?
Is it to, I don't know, maybe they want
clean objectives or KPIs written down.
Maybe it's just the team should
just be functioning and be healthy.
What's important to
your manager right now?
What's important to them in the future?
Good things to know cuz it's gonna impact
you one way or the other to know that.
What information do they care about?
Do they care about someone on your team
has a dog and they just had puppies?
Is that relevant to them?
Maybe, some people like that
information about your team.
But you can't share everything
that's happening because remember,
they have other teams and
other managers reporting to them.
They don't need to know
the nuances of everything, so
find out what information
do they care about?
And what can they help with?
Some managers, some senior managers,
directors, etc.,
are not super technical they're
not well-versed in your domain.
Some are, and they can actually
help you in some aspects.
But what exactly do you need help with?
You have to hire soon,
you need help with that.
A lot of times what's helpful is
they can tell you who to talk to.
If nothing else, who are your partners?
They could probably give
you insight into that.
But it's important to find out what
they can do and what they can't do and
what they will do and what they won't do.
That's probably an important
role to establish.
If your manager feels like they're doing
too much for you, you're probably not
being effective, and you should
figure that out pretty early on.
The way you do that is one
on ones with your manager.
Mine are weekly for an hour.
I meet with my manager every week for
an hour, which is about the right cadence.
Which seems a lot for one on one if I
do that for every member of my team,
that'd be a lot, but for me,
it's really important time every week.
And staff meetings, hearing from
other managers, see what's going on,
their perspective is gonna
be different from yours.
You can learn a lot from just
listening to other people and
what's going on at the company.
So the takeaway is when you
first become an early manager,
don't try to do too much in the beginning.
Try to do as,
I won't say as [LAUGH] little as possible,
cuz I don't want you to feel like Jim told
me to chill, so that's what I'm doing.
>> [LAUGH]
>> But by listening it doesn't look
like you're doing anything,
but you are, and
just being curious, it doesn't look
like you're anything, you are.
And don't try to do too much,
don't try to change too much.